F/61Y  
Date Requested: 10/10/2024 
Date Arrived: 10/10/2024 
 
CLINICAL HISTORY: 
CA thyroid 
 
SPECIMEN(S): 
  (A) Left central compartment lymph node, resection, (B) Right thyroid, resection, (C) Left thyroid, resection, (D) Right superior parathyroid, resection, (E) Right inferior parathyroid, resection and (F) Left superior parathyroid, resection 
 
GROSS EXAMINATION: 
 (A) Designated 'Left central compartment lymph node'. The specimen consists of fragments of adipose tissue measuring about 2 ml in volume. All embedded in 1 block. 
 (B) Designated 'Right thyroid'. The specimen consists of a thyroid lobe weighing 14.5 g. No orientation is provided. It measures 6 cm along the SI axis, 2.8 cm along the ML axis, 3 cm along the AP axis. The anterior surface is inked green, posterior blue. Serial sectioning along the transverse plane reveals multiple colloid nodules. 
 A solid tan-colored nodule is noted towards the superior edge which measures about 1.5 cm in greatest dimension. Partially embedded in 6 blocks, with the tan-colored nodule all embedded. 
 (B1) Isthmic side resection end. 
 (B2) Tan-colored nodule and the superior edge, serially perpendicular sectioned. 
 (B3) Tan-colored nodule. 
 (B4)-(B6) Representative blocks, colloid nodules. 
 (C) Designated 'Left thyroid'. The specimen consists of a thyroid lobe without orientation provided. It weighs 8.5 g and measures 4.2 cm along the SI axis, 3.5 cm along the ML axis, 1.5 cm along the AP axis. The anterior surface is inked green, posterior blue. Serial sectioning along the transverse plane shows an ill-defined tan-colored lesion with some calcification spanning from the middle to lower pole for about 2.5 cm in greatest dimension. Partially embedded in 6 blocks. 
 (C1) Isthmic side resection end. 
 (C2)-(C4) Representative blocks of the lesion. 
 (C5) The lesion and the inferior edge, perpendicular block. 
 (C6) Colloid nodule. 
 (D) Designated 'Right superior parathyroid'. The specimen weighs 0.2 g and measures 0.8 cm across. All embedded in 1 block. 
 (E) Designated 'Right inferior parathyroid'. The specimen weighs 0.6 g and measures 1.2 cm across. All embedded in 1 block. 
 (F) Designated 'Left superior parathyroid'. The specimen weighs 0.2 g and measures 1 cm across. All embedded in 1 block. 
 
MICROSCOPIC EXAMINATION: 
 (A) Section shows 4 lymph nodes. There is no evidence of malignancy. 
 (B) Sections show a microscopic focus of papillary carcinoma, 6 mm in dimension, in infiltrative follicular pattern. The tumor cells display overlapping optically clear nuclei with occasional nuclear grooving. No extrathyroidal extension is seen. The resection margins are clear, with a minimal microscopic clearance of <1 mm from the anterior surface. 
 (C) Sections show papillary carcinoma, 11 mm in dimension, in infiltrative follicular pattern and focal papillary structures among a sclerotic stroma, associated with calcification and ossification. The tumor cells display optically clear nuclei, irregular nuclear membrane and nuclear pseudoinclusions. 
 Extrathyroidal extension is present. The peripheral margins are clear, with a minimal microscopic clearance of <1 mm from both the anterior and posterior surfaces. Lymphovascular permeation is present. Three lymph nodes, all involved by metastatic carcinoma, are present at the isthmic side resection end. Fibroblastic reaction and hemorrhage are noted in the adjacent area. 
 (D)-(F) Sections show parathyroid tissue with preserved fat component. Foci of proliferation of acidophilic/basophilic cells are seen. Please also correlate with clinical findings. 
 
DIAGNOSIS: 
 (A) Left central compartment lymph node, resection: 
    - No evidence of malignancy. 
 (B) Right thyroid, resection: 
    - Papillary carcinoma of the thyroid (6 mm). 
 (C) Left thyroid, resection: 
    - Papillary carcinoma of the thyroid (11 mm). 
 (D) Right superior parathyroid, resection: 
    - Please see description. 
 (E) Right inferior parathyroid, resection: 
    - Please see description. 
 (F) Left superior parathyroid, resection: 
    - Please see description. 
