M/55Y 
Date Requested: 22/12/2024 
Date Arrived: 22/12/2024 
 
CLINICAL HISTORY: 
 Total thyroidectomy + R SND 
 
SPECIMEN(S): 
 (A) Right thyroid, resection, (B) Left thyroid, resection, (C) Central neck lymph node, excision and (D) Right level 2, 3, 4 lymph node, excision 
 
GROSS EXAMINATION: 
 (Specimen received in formalin) 
 (A) Specimen is labelled 'Right thyroid'. Specimen consists of the right lobe of a thyroid 14 g. It measures 5 x 3 x 2 cm. Anterior surface inked green, posterior surface inked yellow. There are few nodules noted. The one in the upper pole measures about 1 cm. The one in the middle and lower pole measures 2.7 cm. Some normal thyroid tissue is noted in between these two nodules. 
 (A1) Upper pole nodule. 
 (A2) Relatively normal thyroid tissue. 
 (A3)-(A7) Lower pole nodule. 
 (B) Specimen is labelled 'Left thyroid'. Specimen consists of the left lobe of a thyroid gland 8.6 g measures 4 x 2 x 2 cm. Serial sectioning shows a small yellowish nodule in its middle pole 0.2 cm. Otherwise the thyroid gland appears unremarkable. 
 The small nodule is embedded in (B1); (B2)&(B3) Blocks taken from the rest of the thyroid tissue. 
(C) Specimen is labelled 'Central neck lymph node'. Specimen consists of fragmented pieces of yellowish fatty tissue about 2 ml in volume. All embedded. 2 blocks. 
 (D) Specimen is labelled 'Right level 2, 3, 4 lymph node'. Specimen consists of some fatty tissue including a number of lymph nodes. Some of which appear to be involved by whitish tumour. Size of the tumour nodule range from 0.5 cm to 1.2 cm. 5 blocks. 
 
MICROSCOPIC EXAMINATION: 
 (A) 
 - Histological type 
 - Papillary carcinoma: Classic (usual, conventional) 
 - Tumour focality: Multifocal 
 - Tumour capsule invasion: Present (focal) 
 - Angioinvasion: Absent 
 - Lymphatic invasion: Present 
 - Perineural invasion: Present 
 - Extrathyroidal extension: Present (minimal) 
 - Primary tumour staging: pT4a: Tumour more than 4 cm limited to thyroid or any tumour with minimal extrathyroid extension 
 - Resection margins: Focal involvement by invasive carcinoma at posterior surface 
 - Additional notes: Tumor extending into the parathyroid gland. 
 (B) There are two small nodules of papillary thyroid carcinoma (4mm & 2mm), confining within this thyroid lobe. 
 (C) A total of two lymph nodes are sampled. Both show metastatic carcinoma. The largest metastatic focus measures ~5mm. No extranodal extension is seen. In addition, a separate piece of fibroadipose tissue embedding a sizable nerve is noted where extensive perineural invasion is detected. 
 (D) A total of 15 lymph nodes are sampled. Nine of them are involved by metastatic carcinoma. The largest metastatic focus measures ~9mm. No extranodal extension is seen. 
 
DIAGNOSIS: 
 (A) Right THYROID, resection - PAPILLARY CARCINOMA. 
 (B) Left THYROID, resection - involved by PAPILLARY CARCINOMA. 
 (C) Central neck LYMPH NODE, excision - METASTATIC CARCINOMA; extensive perineural invasion. 
 (D) Right level 2, 3, 4 LYMPH NODE, excision - METASTATIC CARCINOMA. 
